* ELG7132D:  Final Exam

*** By: Reid van Melle
*** Student No: 5107751

*** Question #1

Submitted on paper.

*** Question #2, Part a, b, c

Submitted on paper.

NOTE: I'm relatively certain that there is something in my derivation
of the kernels because when I tried to plot the results, only the
first order response was valid.  The other responses contained
overflow or nan errors.  When I examined things closer, some of the
kernels were returning numbers which were simply too small and I
believe causing underflow errors.  However, I think that my
calculations in the code are correct which means there is very likely
an error in the hand derivation.

I did not have time to debug this fully... obviously.

*** Question #2, Part d

Here is the code the computes and plots the 1st, 2nd, and 3rd order
responses.  Only the first order response actually plots succesfully
and I'm pretty sure this is the wrong answer as well so I didn't
bother including the actual plot.

<include file="../finalExam/plot_response.html" markup="nil">

*** Question #2, Part e

The derivation of the 3rd order Volterra kernel for three independent
frequencies would be performed in a similar manner to that for two
independent frequencies.  However, the number of unique terms would be
much much larger.

*** Question #2, Part f

First, I've submitted the code snippet that is used to build the
circuit and invoke the Volterra-based analysis.  As usual, the
solution is entirely general.  Note how declarations for **src1**,
**src2**, and **conductance** are passed into the routine including
information about how they are to be hooked to the circuits.  The
values for g1, g2, and g3 are passed in as functions to be computed
based on the DC solution.

<include file="../finalExam/test_volterra.html" markup="nil">

Finally, the incomplete implementation of the method of nonlinear
currents is shown below.  Only the first order response is computed
before I ran out of time.

<include file="../finalExam/volterra.html" markup="nil">

*** Question #2, Part g

Since my computer account appears to be expired, I tried to get
comparison results using my own multi-tone harmonic balance analysis.
The code which builds the circuit and invoked the analysis is shown
below:

<include file="../finalExam/test_multihb.html" markup="nil">

Unfortunately, there were some convergence problems during the HB
source-stepping process and the system never gets past around "=alpha
0.15=" for any cases where the input signals are relatively large.
This is something that I will continue to work on to correct.  I
believe I need a more robust homotopy method.
